# College_Completion_Rates

This repository contains files related to an investigation using data science of low completion rates at US community colleges. The repository holds three files, including a summary report, copies of presentation slides and the jupyter notebook for the analysis. A more detailed summary exists at the following link: https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/explaining-low-completion-rates-community-colleges-william-webb-phd/ .

The project considers low completion rates at community college, which is a concern since community colleges in the US play a vital role in bringing higher education and vocational training to a broad spectrum of students. Unfortunately, community colleges suffer extremely low completion rates. Only 23% of first-time degree/certificate-seeking students at two-year public colleges complete their programs within six years, compared to 47% at four-year public colleges. I investigated completion rates at community colleges using a combination of machine learning and traditional statistical approaches. The top positive predictor of completion was the percentage of degrees awarded in agriculture, agriculture operations and related sciences. The top negative predictor out of 52 total features (variables) was the share of part-time undergraduate students who were seeking a degree or a certificate. Linear regression and machine learning algorithms struggled to explain and predict variation in completion rates. Linear regression explained less than a third of the total variation in completion rate (R^2 adj = 0.29, DF = 51, P <0.01). The best-performing machine learning algorithm, as measured by the mean coefficient of determination for prediction was random forest regression(R^2 = 0.20 ± 0.13 SD) and the lowest-performer was support vector machine regression (R2 = 0.08 ± 0.14 SD).  
